In this lesson we're going to see how to
redirect print from the screen to a file.
So we're going to work in the interactive
shell again, so let's open that.
So in the last lesson we saw that printing
to the screen, we use the print function
and we put the data we want to
print inside parenthesis as the argument
to the function.
A primitive way to perform the same
function is to import the sys library.
We haven't talked about importing
libraries yet,
but like most modern languages Python has
a
series of libraries which bring added
functionality
to the, fundamental language or the basic
language.
By doing this, we keep the language small,
the core
language small, which increases efficiency
and productivity of the language.
And then we need additional functionality,
we simply import the library that we need.
So to see how the print function works, we
have import the sys library.
To get at one of the objects of that
library, standard out.
Then it has a function right.
In this case we wanna put a new line in
there to write out data to the screen.
So, the print function is just a
easier way of doing import sys,
sys.standard out.write.
And then the data that you wanna write out
to the screen.
But with this in mind we can redefine
standard out.
It's just by default going to the screen,
but we can redefine it.
We do that by referencing the objects as a
sta, standard
out and then we open a file that we wanna
use.
So, we'll say, we'll call this.
Text.dat and we'll open it to append.
So now when we say print hello notice it
didn't print anything on the screen.
And if we exit out of the shell and type
out the file using the dos command
Type we'll see that our text, hello, went
to the file instead of the screen.
And every other time that we use the print
command in
that session then it would have sent that
output to the file.
Now we close the session by typing exit.
So now when we open up the shell again, we
haven't redirected
output, the sys.standard out, so it's
still going to the right place.
Let's do it again,
[BLANK_AUDIO]
like so.
So once again, our output with print is
going to the file and not to the screen.
So a better way to redirect output, is
to rather than redefine sys.standard out,
is to redirect.
Where print goes when we issue the print
command and here's how we're going to do
that.
First thing we need to do is we need to
define a text object or create a new file.
Open it for a pending and then any data
that we want to print to that
file we want to use print and then
redirect it using the double greater than
sign.
Through the text file, and then whatever
text we want to provide now goes there.
And then if I say print, so now the
print function, the default version prints
to the screen, and
when we want to print to a file, we
redirect
it using the redirect operator, the double
greater than sign.
And say take the data the second argument
and send it to the file.
So that's the better way to do print
redirection in python.
So that's how you do it.
That's how you redirect print when you
don't wanna print to the screen.
And that concludes this lesson and we're
ready to move to the last lesson of the
chapter where we're going to discuss how
to
get input from the keyboard into our
python programs.